.TH DUST 1 "April 2026" "dust 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dust \- fast Linux disk scan and cleanup CLI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dust
[\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fICOMMAND\fR]
.br
.B dust
\fBscan\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fISCAN_PATH\fR]
.br
.B dust
\fBclean\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fITARGET\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dust
is a terminal-first tool for scanning disk usage and cleaning removable junk
on Linux systems. It supports fast directory analysis and safety-first cleanup
flows with preview and confirmation.

When launched as
.B dust
with no command in an interactive terminal, Dust opens a TUI home menu.
By default this opens in the current terminal session.
Set
.B DUST_OPEN_NEW_WINDOW=1
to try launching the TUI in a new terminal window.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B (no command)
Open interactive TUI home menu (TTY sessions).
.TP
.B scan
Scan directories and report the largest folders.
.TP
.B clean
Clean cache, temp files, and logs with preview and confirmation support.
.SH SCAN OPTIONS
.TP
.B --top \fICOUNT\fR
Show top N folders (default: 10).
.TP
.B --depth \fILEVELS\fR
Directory depth for the
.B du
engine (default: 6).
.TP
.B --engine \fINAME\fR
Scan engine:
.B auto
,
.B du
, or
.B walk
 (default: auto).
.TP
.B --interactive
Show an interactive picker after scan output.
.TP
.B --raw
Show raw nested entries without deduplication.
.TP
.B --json
Emit JSON output for scripts.
.TP
.B --verbose
Print non-fatal scan errors.
.SH CLEAN OPTIONS
.TP
.B --dry-run
Preview cleanup results without deleting files.
.TP
.B --yes
Skip confirmation prompt.
.TP
.B --stale-days \fIDAYS\fR
For temp/log cleanup, only target entries older than N days (default: 3).
.TP
.B --verbose
Print skipped paths and reasons.
.SH CLEAN TARGETS
.TP
.B cache
Clean user cache files under
.I ~/.cache
.
.TP
.B tmp
Clean stale temporary files under
.I /tmp
.
.TP
.B logs
Clean stale log files (user/system where accessible).
.TP
.B dev
Clean developer junk directories (for example:
.I node_modules, dist, build, .venv, target
) from the current workspace.
.TP
.B all
Run all cleanup targets.
.SH SAFETY
.B dust
uses safety checks before deletion:
.IP \(bu 2
Dry-run preview before destructive cleanup
.IP \(bu 2
Interactive confirmation unless
.B --yes
is used
.IP \(bu 2
Critical path protections
.IP \(bu 2
Symlink-safe traversal behavior
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Run a default scan:
.B dust scan
.TP
Fast scan of home with
.B du
engine:
.B dust scan ~ --engine du --depth 6 --top 20
.TP
Interactive scan mode:
.B dust scan ~ --interactive
.TP
Preview all cleanup:
.B dust clean all --dry-run
.TP
Clean cache without prompt:
.B dust clean cache --yes
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Invalid arguments, runtime error, or cancelled action.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR du (1),
.BR rm (1),
.BR find (1)
